API:
 Application Programming Interface,
software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other.
delivers a user response to a system and sends the system's response back to a user
eg:whether checking.
GUI:
Graphical use rinterface
allows users to interact with electronic devices through graphical icons
like voice search, text box, check box, radio button,..
ODBC
SQL-based Application Programming Interface (API)
created by Microsoft
 used by “”Windows software applications”” to access databases via SQL.
 for any language like C,C++,Java etc.
JDBC
SQL-based API
created by Sun Microsystems
Java applications to use SQL for database access.
Can be used only for Java languages.
INTERUPT:
 A signal sent to cpu
WEB TECHNOLOGY:
It gives us a way to interact with hosted information, like websites. Web technology involves the use of hypertext markup language (HTML) and cascading style sheets (CSS)

ST:
Software Testing is a method to check whether the actual software product matches expected requirements
identifying any errors, gaps or missing requirement versus the actual requirement.
SDLC:
#1) Requirement Gathering and Analysis.
#2) Design.
#3) Implementation or Coding.
#4) Testing.
#5) Deployment.(delivery)
#6) Maintenance.
agile:
approach based on iterative development. Agile methods break tasks into smaller iterations, or parts do not directly involve long term planning.
minimize the project risk and to reduce the overall project delivery time requirements.
compilation process :
Pre-processing, Compiling, Assembling, and Linking.
BIG DATA:
DEFINITION:
describes the large volume of data
– both structured (table-employee table )and unstructured(email,photos,videos)
V-volume,velocity,veracity,veracity,variability.
Vol-amt of data to be processed,
Velocity-speed
Measuring value of data…as data are rapidly changing
Veracity- quality and origin of data
Variety-type of data
audio and video files, photos, GPS data, medical files, instrument measurements, graphics, web documents
variability- to what extent, and how fast, is the structure of your data changing
inconsistent speed
HADOOP:
Open source
Java oriented framework for big data
Store and process big data
It use map reduce programming model to fast store the big data
Map reduce-i/p map reduce o/p
YARN:
 Yet Another Resource Negotiator
 main component of Hadoop
 allows the data stored in HDFS (Hadoop Distributed File System) to be processed
impact of covid:
it has the impact on worldwide
human lives affected
agriculture, daily wages, small scale industries affected a lot
price of food ingredients increased high..
5 rupees products were sold for 50 rupees
Doctors, policemen, social workers
 have no rest they work day and night in hospitals
schools,colleges were closed
IT emplyees are doing work from home from march
I spent my quarantine:
First 2 months I enjoyed lot being hostler from 9th std I loved to spend with my family
Ate my mother’s special items and my favorite items.
Then I did my mini project
Tcs ion
Placement preparations
Online academic classes….
